hello everyone welcome to ipfs all hands
sprint call this is our weekly call
where we talk about how things are going
with the community and with projects and
more about actually figuring out what
discussions need to have in the next
week or so we've been having in sort of
new format over the past month if you
haven't checked in since then welcome
it'll be pretty clear what's going on
because we'll have someone who will be
officiating and going through the call
as like a meet which this week is going
to be Mars and then Emily is going to be
note-taking as according to last week if
you can join the All Hands etherpad link
which I posted into IRC where you can
see the notes and if you have any new
agenda items I see only one agenda item
please add them in there now hopefully
we can get these done before this call
in the future we have three calls after
this which are also on the schedule and
if we have any other calls during this
call I'll have them to the schedule
later and I think that sums it up for
the opening remarks thank you very much
Lars why don't you take it away yeah I
think we're not doing a roll call today
so let's write into the different
endeavors I guess oh hey Jeremy is here
so let's just end of it as well so let's
just start with co-op here first I guess
sure I think I miss what we're doing
right now
Lars that on the agenda going through
the endeavors I'm sorry
I'm not very well prepared for this
no the actually the first point on the
agenda is creating a running by a
videography of papers about a PFS that's
me I
so discussion in a ticket since then I
think it seems like there are actually
multiple places where the bibliography
could be accumulating so maybe just the
thing to say on this call is Richard and
I should follow up and figure out one
place where that information should
accumulate and then we'll post it and
publicize those locations does anyone
else want to participate in that
discussion about that ha a synchronous
discussion about where and how to
accumulate the graffiti of related stuff
once using again so if you just watch
that ticket it's they're linked in the
agenda anyone else planning to or
actively interested in just bidding that
okay all right so then so then we'll
follow up on the ticket and figure out
where and how to accumulate that stuff
might be a couple different
bibliographies because there's like one
bibliography that's like stuff about
ipfs and then there's another one that's
reference materials for people working
on ipfs etc etc so watch that space
was that Richard I'll comment on that
issue right after this call so keep your
eyes on that thank you for bringing this
up and surfacing it it's awesome yeah
thank you
anything Monda okay then the next one is
an IPA fest meetup in Barcelona I guess
that's Victor okay so I'm in Barcelona
today to tomorrow to do
I thought that feels like best and
Victor and I were talking about actually
hosting it me up here on Wednesday so
once a it's a gap day for the conference
and so we can coverage organizers
encouraged us to have it then and they
haven't actually a huge hack space that
we can use so we need to do it just a
little bit of like figuring out the
exact timing and figuring out the just
making sullen elements and I'll announce
the drag during the talk so if anyone
that is in Brooklyn or around and was to
come definitely pay attention to an
issue that I'll post that it has been
posted in the pad and you can follow you
can come in and hang out okay great
first meetup in q3 well apart from the
workshop in this one okay thanks
it doesn't look like we have any more
items on the agenda so I'm not sure what
happens next so we made a mistake with
the way these notes were set up the
first agenda item should be asking for
more agenda items like did anyone have
any other agenda items so so it does
anyone else have agenda items okay other
than the Barcelona moment okay so then
largest the next thing to do basically
this call is done so you think everyone
and for having such a concise call then
as one suggested a couple weeks ago we
can use this space as an opportunity for
demos and so it didn't does anyone have
a demo that they want to do there was
something about orbit and Chad which I
saw which looked really nice I can
something like me nice get things up and
running
should I go I are we waiting for me
uh yeah but no rush we can we can talk
to us ourselves or just they're playing
plank actually one it'd be great to have
a short chat with you maybe and what
else who wants to join anything about
the newsletter basically like we so we
can do a that'd be awesome
should we schedule that for immediately
after the demos shouldn't take sure
thanks cool what do you want to demo
your timings on gorget that's like that
event stuff
do you want to demo that timing stuff
that you hooked up to ipfs do i hook up
no timing but like it can artists timing
but I could up metrics simple very
simple metric system to go idea fest it
uses Prometheus which we use already but
the main difference is that it allows
you to to likely hook up metrics and
we're in the code base in our sub
projects without importing call from
Matias code into that sub-project sir
figure out if I can broadcast my screen
desktop Start screen sure you see the
screen yep yeah so normally we would
import all three Matias out here which
is quite a big library but as I just
this library go matrix interface is like
one file that has 60 or 80
lines of code that is just like create
the interface that defines the interface
for matrix correct collection and
defines no operation collector and then
users as such so you just create so I
went with system system that uses
context to pass like scope of the metric
this allows you to nest the metrics and
the modules into each other so I create
two account ORS in here that that are
for arc cash that one measures hits
second one measures total numbers of
requests to the cache and over here are
increased in one counter and here
increase the second counter the hits
counter so when the hit is like we found
the result that the cache worked so I
can see show you it's working
our our matrix this part so in us the
bloom cash is the first cash that gets
hit by the his request it will have the
biggest number of requests so it has
3,000 requests and I just started lemon
and it it got 1,000 hits so it removed
1000 like 1,000 requests were cash buy
this cash and then there is our cash
that is more useful when a demon runs
demon runs longer or da repeated tasks
done so yeah and the whole point of Lau
isn't there's no reference oh you give
me an hour meeting I think there's like
some key bindings going on yeah I have
sorry so this whole point of the system
is to allow us to easily introduce
metrics to sub projects and like
different building blocks of correct EFS
without importing the main library into
it pretty cool and I guess it's
compatible with the same Prometheus
format so that you can then later
visualize that in graph on R so yeah
it's per meters we use that already for
Agrafena like yeah the main difficulty
the underlying library didn't change
what changed is that we now we can
import go metric interface and update
for example Prometheus without upgrading
dramatis in average sub-project i would
like to do something very similar we go
because recently I went through trouble
of updating go log for all our sub
projects and it took a while so maybe
maybe it'd be cool to like like some
tooling on Jax to y'all
yeah I can level up I dependency through
the graft or something but anyway yeah
the other query it's it's it's really
useful to use interfaces everywhere
where you depend on a library like
instead of depending on an
implementation and that dependent
library like depend on an interface
example if there's ten libraries in our
dependency tree that use multi hash they
all need to have the same version of
multi hash and that gets really
cumbersome at some point Thank You
Somali next yeah I'm ready go for it so
let's see can you see that yes right all
right perfect
so I started working on something today
to create a nicer or a different demo
for Def Con to you for the you port
identities so I started something called
Express it's basically kinda like
Twitter you can post on what's happening
it's it's using the same orbit stuff so
it looked a little similar still you can
check other people's streams that's
another oh it's a different key but so
here you know the the same stuff that
works in orbit out of the box you can
see the file streaming added as well as
you know I tried something like tweeting
related things the links are there and
yeah that's pretty much where I'm at
right now with this one it's still very
early on but like I was thinking
that you could show the you port
integration with this kind of stuff Matt
don't look awesome
I similarly could you remind me who
would be using this and why would they
be using it like what is it what is the
functionality that it's showing why is
that functionality so basically what
you're seeing is a individualized stream
per user so you can think of it as like
a like Twitter basically you have your
own feed that only you can post you and
then others can follow that feed of
items and get your your posts basically
so that's kind of the technology idea
behind it so as for how is that
different from orbit or so in orbit the
kind of the the channels are the same
thing as a defeat but everyone can post
on any of those channels so this would
be limited to that particular user and
yeah I mean different UI different user
experience um I was trying to show
something here but like you can also
reply to single comments now so if I
reply to this one you can see this like
previous message here happening and so
I'm kind of thinking this would be
similar to retweet or or like replied to
a tweet kind of user paradigm so yeah
the thesis will see it as like a little
boxing that happens with a Twitter like
when you go and like reply to something
like there's like a it almost like
embeds to the other tweet and then when
you click another like take him to the
other tree or something it might be
addition we see yeah definitely I I'm
still thinking like like I said I
spent maybe five hours today on on this
so there's a there's still a lot on the
on the UI side as well as on the back
inside but it's pretty awesome that so
so I thought orbit work we're like each
channel is like shared between the two
of you so if I tweet my stuff and then I
go away that can other people get my my
stream or like how is the data
replicated is it just everyone shares
the entire data base row
all aboard we were in in order you mean
are in this one so okay yeah anyone who
was on that channel shares that database
okay no nobody gets channel data that
they're not on on or or so on the
replication is is tricky it's not very
easy in this environment with
peer-to-peer architecture so still
working on that we just realized
actually today the you know the
replication is pretty important part to
make things work not only I'm just
wondering if I can't comment on a
channel but the channel is basically
locked to a user and they can comment on
it does that mean that I still get the
data or not like how is that replicated
if you view it then it'll can replicate
it to your node cool yeah you can if you
user you get it sweet yeah and this is
something where you could actually
implement a following type metaphor like
a SSD I know it thinks are proposing
right where he likes automatically
replicated once you have like some sort
of follow link between between users so
you can then use that as a way of like
doing the actual notification rights but
if I follow you as a user then that
means that my node is signing itself up
to replicate all your your content so it
would it's kind of like it's kind of
like about where just like Paul's your
theme and super cool
replication yeah that's super awesome I
like that Thanks cool
sweet thank you okay thanks we have one
last set agenda item and that's
determining a moderator and note-taker
for next week so hands and I'll just go
and volunteer to be the moderator again
just because I was completely unprepared
today bigger great suite and that was
the All Hands for this week we're gonna
have a call about the newsletter right
afterwards and then in I think half an
hour the first endeavor hangout is going
down for I'm not sure for what exactly
but for one of the end of this go as if
s all about us I'm great a bit to be
okay thank you
yeah and I'll post the links for those
and the Hangout links hopefully before
they all happen using the new YouTube UI
which is a whole lot easier than what I
was doing before so what's this space
slash iris do you want to start adding
them to the sprint issue at the top to
the table yeah yeah I will I need to
actually make them first
yeah yeah sure Richard I already have an
agenda item for next week so if you
could post either bed as well okay
thanks all of you and see most of you in
a bit